# discord.js wheel-spinning bot using the Wheel of Names API

This is a simple app built with discord.js that uses the [Wheel of Names](https://wheelofnames.com) API to render wheel spins in response to a slash command.

## Getting started

Start by creating a repository and getting the code onto your system.

1. Create a repo based on this template using the green "Use this template" button.
2. Clone your repo from the green "Code" button.

In order to run the app, you'll need to set up your environment.

3. Install [Node.js (24+)](https://nodejs.org). I recommend using nvm or fnm for local development.
4. Create a copy of `.env.template` and name it `.env`.
5. Create a [Discord application](https://discord.com/developers/applications). Copy its application ID (found under "General information") and token (found under "Bot") into `.env`.
6. Create a [Wheel of Names API key](https://wheelofnames.com/api-doc). Copy it into `.env`.

### Local development

7. Run `npm install` in this directory to install dependencies.
8. Run `npm run deploy-commands` to deploy your commands to Discord.
9. Run `npm run dev` in this directory to run the local development server.

Remember to run `npm run deploy-commands` whenever you update the `data` of any of your commands!

#### Additional helpful scripts:

- Run `npm run check-types` to check the whole project for type errors.
- Run `npm run lint` to lint the whole project with `oxlint`.
- Run `npm run format` to format the whole project with `oxfmt`.

### Production deployment

7. Ensure that package-lock.json has been generated by running `npm install`.
8. Upload this entire directory (except for `node_modules`) to your server.

#### With Docker

9. Ensure that Docker and Docker Compose are installed.
10. Run `docker compose up -d` to build the image, deploy the bot commands to Discord, and run the production bot server.

#### Manual

9. Ensure that Node.js 24+ is installed.
10. Run `npm ci --omit=dev` in this directory to install only runtime dependencies.
11. Run `npm start` in this directory to deploy the bot commands to Discord and run the production bot server.

## Next steps

I would recommend creating two separate apps in the Discord developer console; one production app and one for development. Use GitHub Actions or some other form of CI/CD to automate production deployments based on either merges into main or tagged commits. Use repository secrets to store the .env file for your production bot and keep the .env file for the development bot exclusively on your local system. This way, you can iterate quickly on the development bot without breaking things for your users.

Go wild customizing your wheel(s)! Create all kinds of custom commands for spinning specific wheels. Try integrating the your bot with other services like Twitch, for example.

Here are some examples of commands you could add, all with their own custom colors:

- `/d20` to spin a wheel with the numbers 1-20
- `/members` to spin a wheel with members of your server
- `/reactions` to spin a wheel with users who reacted to a specific message
- `/voice` to spin a wheel with users in your current voice channel

You can let your users change the spin time, shuffle the entries, modify entry weights, set the background color, choose not to have the animation loop, change the winner message, spin the wheel repeatedly in-place with buttons, or spin their wheels created on the Wheel of Names website.

You're not even limited to just using slash commands. You can use message actions, so when you right-click on a message, you can spin a wheel using the texts in the message as the entries. The possibilities are endless!
